---
layout: documentation
---

# Mesos Doxygen Style Guide

At the time of writing, we are in the process of introducing a consistent style
for [documenting Mesos source code](http://mesos.apache.org/api/latest/c++) 
using [Doxygen](http://www.doxygen.org).
This is an ongoing, incremental enhancement. 
Both existing and new code may first appear without documentation. 
However, whenever documentation is added, it should follow these guidelines.

## Phrasing Guidelines

We follow the [IETF RFC2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt) 
on how to use words such as "must", "should", "can", 
and other requirement-related notions.

## Outside Source Code

### Library and Component Overview Pages

Substantial libraries, components, and subcomponents of the Mesos system such as
stout, libprocess, master, slave, containerizer, allocator, and many more, 
should have an overview page in markdown format that explains their 
purpose, overall structure, and general use.

This page must be located at the top directory of the library/component and 
named after it, followed by "_overview.md". 
Example: "containerizer_overview.md".

### User Guides

For libraries (stout, libprocess) we provide an extra user guide in a file
called "REAMDE.md" at in their top level directory.
If a user guide is given, the component overview must link to it and vice-versa.

## In Source Code

Doxygen documentation needs only to be applied to source code parts that 
constitute an interface for which we want to generate Mesos API documentation
files. Implementation code that does not participate in this should still be
enhanced by source code comments as appropriate, but these comments do not need
to follow the doxygen style.

We follow the [Javadoc syntax]() to mark comment blocks. 
These have the general form:

    /**
     * Brief summary.
     *
     * Detailed description. More detail.
     * @see Some reference 
     *
     * @param <name> Parameter description.
     * @return Return value description.
     */
     
Example: 

    /**
     * Returns a compressed version of a string.
     *
     * Compresses an input string using the foobar algorithm.
     *
     * @param uncompressed The input string.
     * @return A compressed version of the input string.
     */
     std::string compress(const std::string& uncompressed);
     
### Global Constants and Variables

### Functions

### Classes

#### Methods

#### Fields

### Templates

### Macros


### Markup Style

There are a number of different doxygen
<pre>
# This is a level 1 header
## Level 2 header
</pre>

### CPP Style


## Code

### Examples
Comment Style/// //! //*


## Code
<pre>
/**
 * ... JavaDoc style style text ...
 */
</pre>

<pre>
/*!
 * ... Qt style text ...
 */
</pre>

<pre>
///
/// ... text ...
///
</pre>

<pre>
//!
//! ... text ...
//!
</pre>

<pre>
/*!
 ...  text without intermediate *...
*/
</pre>


Enum values are documented at the end of the same line (different styles):
<pre>
/*! A test class */
class Test
{
  public:
    /** An enum type. */
    enum EnumType
    {
      int EVal1,     /**< enum value 1 */
      int EVal2      /**< enum value 2 */
    };
    void member();   //!< a member function.

  protected:
    int value;       /*!< an integer value */
};

</pre>


Elaborate example
<pre>
  //!  A test class.
/*!
  A more elaborate class description.
*/
class Test
{
  public:
    //! An enum.
    /*! More detailed enum description. */
    enum TEnum {
                 TVal1, /*!< Enum value TVal1. */
                 TVal2, /*!< Enum value TVal2. */
                 TVal3  /*!< Enum value TVal3. */
               }
         //! Enum pointer.
         /*! Details. */
         *enumPtr,
         //! Enum variable.
         /*! Details. */
         enumVar;

    //! A constructor.
    /*!
      A more elaborate description of the constructor.
    */
    Test();
    //! A destructor.
    /*!
      A more elaborate description of the destructor.
    */
   ~Test();

    //! A normal member taking two arguments and returning an integer value.
    /*!
      \param a an integer argument.
      \param s a constant character pointer.
      \return The test results
      \sa Test(), ~Test(), testMeToo() and publicVar()
    */
    int testMe(int a,const char *s);

    //! A pure virtual member.
    /*!
      \sa testMe()
      \param c1 the first argument.
      \param c2 the second argument.
    */
    virtual void testMeToo(char c1,char c2) = 0;

    //! A public variable.
    /*!
      Details.
    */
    int publicVar;

    //! A function variable.
    /*!
      Details.
    */
    int (*handler)(int a,int b);
};
</pre>
Click here for the corresponding HTML documentation that is generated by doxygen.